## Understanding Compilation process of smart contracts

Smart contract compilation is the process of converting the human-readable code written in a high-level programming language like Solidity into machine-readable bytecode that can be executed by the Ethereum Virtual Machine (EVM). The compiler also produces an Application Binary Interface (ABI), which is a JSON file that describes the deployed contract and its functions. This helps bridge the gap between web2.0 and web3.0, allowing web applications to interact with smart contracts1.

### Here's a table that summarizes the differences between ABI and Bytecode:

| ABI | Bytecode |
| --- | --- |
| Stands for Application Binary Interface | Stands for low-level machine-readable code |
| JSON file that describes the deployed contract and its functions | Machine-readable code that can be executed by the Ethereum Virtual Machine (EVM) |
| Helps bridge the gap between web2 and web3, allowing web applications to interact with smart contracts | Generated by compiling the human-readable code written in a high-level programming language like Solidity |
| Used by web applications to call the contract's functions | Executed by the EVM to run the contract |


### Opcode in Ethereum

In Ethereum, opcodes are low-level instructions that specify the operation to be performed by the Ethereum Virtual Machine (EVM). The code of an Ethereum contract is written in a low-level, stack-based bytecode language, i.e., the EVM code. The instructions of the hexadecimal bytecode representation are often mapped into a human-readable form which is referred to as opcode.

There is a reference page on ethereum.org that provides an accessible reference for EVM opcodes. You can also view the opcodes of a contract by going to Etherscan, clicking on the Contract tab, and then switching to Opcodes View.

### [Opcode disassembler](https://etherscan.io/opcode-tool)

### More information in Hindi

<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/opHjPETCh68" title="YouTube video player" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture; web-share" allowfullscreen></iframe>